---
layout: page
title:  "Modern Highway Map with Roman Roads"
exclude: true
---

<iframe width="800px" height="600px" src="https://mads709.github.io/mod-highway-map.github.io/" title="map"></iframe>

This map provides an interesting look into how these Roman roads have influenced the modern highway system in Britain today. There are maps from Orengo and Lewis layered on top as well as the LCPs that I generated. By layering these maps and clicking the checked boxes in the legend to turn different layers on and off, one can view the similarities between the roads of the ancient world and modern day. First off, the LCPs generated by solely on the natural landscape of Britain display many similarities to the roads today. For example, M5 between Gloucester and Lichfield almost aligns perfectly with the least cost path. Another place is the road from Manchester to York, which was discussed in this <a href="{% link map-analysis/eng-map-north-area.md %}">*<u>project</u>*</a>, is almost aligned with the LCPs as well. This is an interesting area as this route was not as commonly used by the Romans like other ones seen from Lewis and Orengo, but it was an essential road to connect the East and West in the North because of the hilly terrain. This is one of the few routes that do not have a high betweenness score from Lewis or Orengo but has a high frequency of LCPs and sustained an importance into the modern day highway system.

Looking towards Orengo's maps there is definitely more consistency of roads with high betweenness centrality that align with the modern day highway system. This means that these routes commonly used for food transportation were major routes for Roman Britain that carried on over the years to become major routes in toady's society as well.

Lewis' roads with high edge betweenness actually had the least in common with the modern day high way system. It's interesting because even though these were important routes for transferring information securely they did not have as much influence for the roads today. There is however a major route that Lewis had which also coincide with an important route from Orengo and from my LCPs. This route is M6 starting from Manchester going North. This route is a route that had a high betweenness score from both Lewis and Oregno as well as had a high frequency of paths on that route from the LCPs. This route is the most prominent route from the Roman period that is still here toady and a part of the modern highway system.
